docs/2.2.md, before:

# xsbt-web-plugin

*Version 2.2*

xsbt-web-plugin is an [sbt][1] extension for
building [J2EE][2] Web
applications in Scala and Java.

[1]: http://www.scala-sbt.org/
[2]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Java_Servlet

## Requirements

* Scala 2.10.2+
* sbt 0.13.6+

*Scala 2.11 and 2.12 are [not yet supported by sbt][issues/166].*

[issues/166]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/issues/166

## Quick reference

Add xsbt-web-plugin to *project/plugins.sbt*:

```scala
addSbtPlugin("com.earldouglas" % "xsbt-web-plugin" % "2.2.0")
```

Enable the Jetty plugin:

*build.sbt*:

```scala
enablePlugins(JettyPlugin)
```

From the sbt console:

* Start (or restart) the container with `jetty:start`
* Stop the container with `jetty:stop`
* Build a *.war* file with `package`

To use Tomcat instead of Jetty:

* Substitute `TomcatPlugin` for `JettyPlugin`
* Substitute `tomcat:start` for `jetty:start`
* Substitute `tomcat:stop` for `jetty:stop`

## Starting from scratch

Create a new empty project:

```
mkdir myproject
cd myproject
```

Set up the project structure:

```
mkdir project
mkdir -p src/main/scala
mkdir -p src/main/webapp/WEB-INF
```

Configure sbt:

*project/build.properties:*

```
sbt.version=0.13.8
```

*project/build.sbt:*

```scala
addSbtPlugin("com.earldouglas" % "xsbt-web-plugin" % "2.2.0")
```

*build.sbt:*

```scala
scalaVersion := "2.11.6"

libraryDependencies += "javax.servlet" % "javax.servlet-api" % "3.0.1" % "provided"

enablePlugins(JettyPlugin)
```

Add a servlet:

*src/main/scala/servlets.scala*:

```scala
package servlets

import javax.servlet.http._

class MyServlet extends HttpServlet {

  override def doGet(request: HttpServletRequest, response: HttpServletResponse) {
    response.setContentType("text/html")
    response.setCharacterEncoding("UTF-8")
    response.getWriter.write("""<h1>Hello, world!</h1>""")
  }

}
```

*src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/web.xml*:

```xml
<web-app>

  <servlet>
    <servlet-name>my servlet</servlet-name>
    <servlet-class>servlets.MyServlet</servlet-class>
  </servlet>

  <servlet-mapping>
    <servlet-name>my servlet</servlet-name>
    <url-pattern>/*</url-pattern>
  </servlet-mapping>

</web-app>
```

## Configuration and use

### Triggered execution

xsbt-web-plugin supports sbt's [triggered execution][3] by prefixing
commands with `~`.

[3]: http://www.scala-sbt.org/0.13/docs/Triggered-Execution.html

*sbt console:*

```
> ~jetty:start
```

This starts the Jetty container, then monitors the sources, resources,
and webapp directories for changes, which triggers a container restart.

### Container arguments

To pass extra arguments to the Jetty or Tomcat container, set
`containerArgs`:

```scala
containerArgs := Seq("--path", "/myservice")
```

* For available Jetty arguments, see the [Jetty Runner docs][4]
* For available Tomcat arguments, see [webapp-runner#options][5]

[4]: http://www.eclipse.org/jetty/documentation/current/runner.html#_full_configuration_reference
[5]: https://github.com/jsimone/webapp-runner#options

### Custom container

To use a custom J2EE container, e.g. a main class named `runner.Run`,
enable `ContainerPlugin` and set `containerLibs` and
`containerLaunchCmd`:

```scala
enablePlugins(ContainerPlugin)

containerLibs in Container := Seq(
    "org.eclipse.jetty" %  "jetty-webapp" % "9.1.0.v20131115"
  , "org.eclipse.jetty" %  "jetty-plus"   % "9.1.0.v20131115"
  , "test"              %% "runner"       % "0.1.0-SNAPSHOT"
)

containerLaunchCmd in Container := Seq("runner.Run", "8080", (target in webappPrepare).value.absolutePath)
```

*sbt:*

```
> container:start
> container:stop
```

*Example: [container/custom-runner][6]*

[6]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/container/custom-runner

### Forked JVM options

To set system properties for the forked container JVM, set
`containerForkOptions`:

```scala
containerForkOptions := new ForkOptions(runJVMOptions = Seq("-Dh2g2=42"))
```

*Example: [container/fork-options][7]*

[7]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/container/fork-options

Alternatively, set `javaOptions` in the `Jetty` (or `Tomcat`)
configuration:

```scala
javaOptions in Jetty += "-Dh2g2=42"
```

To attach an Eclipse debugger, set `-Xdebug` and `-Xrunjdwp`:

*build.sbt:*

```scala
javaOptions in Jetty ++= Seq(
  "-Xdebug",
  "-Xrunjdwp:transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=n,address=8000"
)
```

This is a handy way to change configuration for local development and
testing:

```scala
javaOptions in Jetty += "-DdbUrl=jdbc:sqlite:test.db"
```

In Eclipse, create and run a new *Remote Java Application* launch
configuration with a *Connection Type* of *Scala debugger (Socket
Attach)*, set to connect to *localhost* on port *8000*.

*Example: [container/java-options][8]*

[8]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/container/java-options

Similarly, to attach an IntelliJ IDEA debugger, add a Remote run configuration:
*Run* -> *Edit Configurations...*
Under *Defaults* select *Remote* and push the "+" button to add a new configuration.
By default the configuration will use port 5005.  (Use the same port in the -Xrunjdwp address.)
Name this configuration, and run it in debug mode.

### Debug mode

To enable debugging through [JDWP][jdwp], use `jetty:debug` or
`tomcat:debug`, and optionally set `debugOptions`, which defaults to:

```scala
Seq(
    "-Xdebug"
  , "-Xrunjdwp:transport=dt_socket,address=8888,server=y,suspend=n"
)
```

[jdwp]: https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/troubleshoot/introclientissues005.html

### Jetty version

By default, Jetty 9.3.13 is used.  To use a different version, set
`containerLibs`:

```scala
containerLibs in Jetty := Seq("org.mortbay.jetty" % "jetty-runner" % "7.0.0.v20091005" intransitive())
```

Depending on the version, it may also be necessary to specify the name
of Jetty's runner:

```scala
containerMain := "org.mortbay.jetty.runner.Runner"
```

*Examples:*

* *[container/jetty-7][9]*
* *[container/jetty-8][10]*
* *[container/jetty-9][11]*

[9]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/container/jetty-7
[10]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/container/jetty-8
[11]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/container/jetty-9

### Container port

By default, the container runs on port *8080*.  To use a different port,
set `containerPort`:

```scala
containerPort := 9090
```

*Examples:*

* *[container/jetty-port-9090][12]*
* *[container/tomcat-port-9090][13]*

[12]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/container/jetty-port-9090
[13]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/container/tomcat-port-9090

### *jetty.xml*

To use a *jetty.xml* configuration file, set `containerConfigFile`:

```scala
containerConfigFile := Some(file("etc/jetty.xml"))
```

This option can be used to enable SSL and HTTPS.

*Examples:*

* *[container/jetty-xml-http][14]*
* *[container/jetty-xml-https][15]*

[14]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/container/jetty-xml-http
[15]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/container/jetty-xml-https

### Multi-project applications

*Examples:*

* *[container/multi-module-single-webapp][16]*
* *[container/multi-module-multi-webapp][17]*

[16]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/container/multi-module-single-webapp
[17]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/container/multi-module-multi-webapp

### Tomcat version

By default, Tomcat 8.5 is used.  To use a different version, set
`containerLibs`:

```scala
containerLibs in Tomcat := Seq("com.github.jsimone" % "webapp-runner" % "7.0.34.1" intransitive())
```

Depending on the version, it may also be necessary to specify the name
of Tomcat's runner:

```scala
containerMain in Tomcat := "webapp.runner.launch.Main"
```

### Massaging the *.war* file

After the *<project>/target/webapp* directory is prepared, it can be
modified with an arbitrary `File => Unit` function by setting
`webappPostProcess`.

To list the contents of the *webapp* directory after it is prepared:

```scala
webappPostProcess := {
  webappDir: File =>
    def listFiles(level: Int)(f: File): Unit = {
      val indent = ((1 until level) map { _ => "  " }).mkString
      if (f.isDirectory) {
        streams.value.log.info(indent + f.getName + "/")
        f.listFiles foreach { listFiles(level + 1) }
      } else streams.value.log.info(indent + f.getName)
    }
    listFiles(1)(webappDir)
}
```

To include webapp resources from multiple directories in the prepared
*webapp* directory:

```scala
webappPostProcess := {
  webappDir: File =>
    val baseDir = baseDirectory.value / "src" / "main"
    IO.copyDirectory(baseDir / "webapp1", webappDir)
    IO.copyDirectory(baseDir / "webapp2", webappDir)
    IO.copyDirectory(baseDir / "webapp3", webappDir)
}
```

*Examples:*

* *[war/simple][18]*
* *[webapp/yuicompressor][19]*

[18]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/war/simple
[19]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/webapp/yuicompressor

### Custom resources directory

Files in the extra resource directory are not compiled, and are bundled
directly in the project artifact *.jar* file.

To add a custom resources directory, set `unmanagedResourceDirectories`:

```scala
unmanagedResourceDirectories in Compile <+= (sourceDirectory in Compile)(_ / "extra")
```

*Example: [webapp/unmanaged-resources][20]*

[20]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/webapp/unmanaged-resources

### Custom sources directory

Scala files in the extra source directory are compiled, and bundled in
the project artifact *.jar* file.

To add a custom sources directory, set `unmanagedSourceDirectories`:

```scala
unmanagedSourceDirectories in Compile <+= (sourceDirectory in Compile)(_ / "extra")
```

*Example: [webapp/unmanaged-sources][21]*

[21]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/webapp/unmanaged-sources

### Utilizing *WEB-INF/classes*

By default, project classes are packaged into a *.jar* file, shipped in
the *WEB-INF/lib* directory of the *.war* file.  To instead keep them
extracted in *WEB-INF/classes*, set `webappWebInfClasses`:

```scala
webappWebInfClasses := true
```

*Examples:*

* *[webapp/web-inf-classes][22]*
* *[webapp/web-inf-lib][23]*

[22]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/webapp/web-inf-classes
[23]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/webapp/web-inf-lib

### Web application destination

The Web application destination directory is where the static Web
content, compiled Scala classes, library *.jar* files, etc. are placed.
By default, they go to *<project>/target/webapp*.

To specify a different directory, set `target` in the `webappPrepare`
configuration:

```scala
target in webappPrepare := target.value / "WebContent"
```

*Example: [webapp/webapp-dest][24]*

[24]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/webapp/webapp-dest

### Web application resources

The Web application resources directory is where static Web content
(including *.html*, *.css*, and *.js* files, the *web.xml* container
configuration file, etc.  By default, this is kept in
*<project>/src/main/webapp*.

To specify a different directory, set `sourceDirectory` in the
`webappPrepare` configuration:

```scala
sourceDirectory in webappPrepare := (sourceDirectory in Compile).value / "WebContent"
```

*Example: [webapp/webapp-src][25]*

[25]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/webapp/webapp-src

### Prepare the Web application for execution and deployment

For situations when the prepared *<project>/target/webapp* directory is
needed, but the packaged *.war* file isn't.

*sbt console:*

```
webapp:prepare
```

### Add manifest attributes

Manifest attributes of the *.war* file can be configured via
`packageOptions in sbt.Keys.package` in *build.sbt*:

```scala
packageOptions in sbt.Keys.`package` +=
  Package.ManifestAttributes( java.util.jar.Attributes.Name.SEALED -> "true" )
```

### Inherit manifest attributes

To configure the *.war* file to inherit the manifest attributes of the
*.jar* file, typically set via `packageOptions in (Compile,
packageBin)`, set `inheritJarManifest` to `true`:

```scala
inheritJarManifest := true
```

### Using JRebel

Add the JRebel sbt plugin (which generates *jrebel.xml*) to
*project/plugins.sbt*:

```scala
addSbtPlugin("fi.gekkio.sbtplugins" % "sbt-jrebel-plugin" % "0.10.0")
```

Add the following lines to *build.sbt*, making sure to specify the
correct path to JRebel:

```scala
jrebelSettings

jrebel.webLinks += (sourceDirectory in Compile).value / "webapp"

jrebel.enabled := true

javaOptions in Jetty ++= Seq(
    "-javaagent:/path/to/jrebel/jrebel.jar",
    "-noverify",
    "-XX:+UseConcMarkSweepGC",
    "-XX:+CMSClassUnloadingEnabled"
)
```

Start the container, and trigger `~compile`, and your changes should be
picked up automatically:

```scala
> jetty:start
> ~compile
```

### Container shutdown and sbt

By default, sbt will shutdown the running container when exiting sbt.

To allow the container to continue running after sbt exits, set
`containerShutdownOnExit`:

```scala
containerShutdownOnExit := false
```

## Deploying to Heroku

See [sbt-heroku-deploy][26].

[26]: https://github.com/earldouglas/sbt-heroku-deploy

## Block sbt on running container

To start the container from the command line and block sbt from exiting
prematurely, use `jetty:join`:

```
$ sbt jetty:start jetty:join
```

This is useful for running sbt in production (e.g. in a Docker
container).

### Development mode

The development cycle can be sped up by serving static resources
directly from source, and avoiding re-packaging on every file change.

To enable this, configure the webapp resources target directory to be
the webapp resources source directory:

```scala
target in webappPrepare := (sourceDirectory in Compile).value / "webapp"
```

And exclude them from triggered executions:

```scala
watchSources := watchSources.value.filterNot { x =>
   x.isDirectory || x.getAbsolutePath.contains("webapp")
}
```

Note that this necessarily circumvents any behavior set in
`webappPostProcess`.

Commit message:

Add docs on renaming the *.war* file
Fixes #316

docs/2.2.md, after:

# xsbt-web-plugin

*Version 2.2*

xsbt-web-plugin is an [sbt][1] extension for
building [J2EE][2] Web
applications in Scala and Java.

[1]: http://www.scala-sbt.org/
[2]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Java_Servlet

## Requirements

* Scala 2.10.2+
* sbt 0.13.6+

*Scala 2.11 and 2.12 are [not yet supported by sbt][issues/166].*

[issues/166]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/issues/166

## Quick reference

Add xsbt-web-plugin to *project/plugins.sbt*:

```scala
addSbtPlugin("com.earldouglas" % "xsbt-web-plugin" % "2.2.0")
```

Enable the Jetty plugin:

*build.sbt*:

```scala
enablePlugins(JettyPlugin)
```

From the sbt console:

* Start (or restart) the container with `jetty:start`
* Stop the container with `jetty:stop`
* Build a *.war* file with `package`

To use Tomcat instead of Jetty:

* Substitute `TomcatPlugin` for `JettyPlugin`
* Substitute `tomcat:start` for `jetty:start`
* Substitute `tomcat:stop` for `jetty:stop`

## Starting from scratch

Create a new empty project:

```
mkdir myproject
cd myproject
```

Set up the project structure:

```
mkdir project
mkdir -p src/main/scala
mkdir -p src/main/webapp/WEB-INF
```

Configure sbt:

*project/build.properties:*

```
sbt.version=0.13.8
```

*project/build.sbt:*

```scala
addSbtPlugin("com.earldouglas" % "xsbt-web-plugin" % "2.2.0")
```

*build.sbt:*

```scala
scalaVersion := "2.11.6"

libraryDependencies += "javax.servlet" % "javax.servlet-api" % "3.0.1" % "provided"

enablePlugins(JettyPlugin)
```

Add a servlet:

*src/main/scala/servlets.scala*:

```scala
package servlets

import javax.servlet.http._

class MyServlet extends HttpServlet {

  override def doGet(request: HttpServletRequest, response: HttpServletResponse) {
    response.setContentType("text/html")
    response.setCharacterEncoding("UTF-8")
    response.getWriter.write("""<h1>Hello, world!</h1>""")
  }

}
```

*src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/web.xml*:

```xml
<web-app>

  <servlet>
    <servlet-name>my servlet</servlet-name>
    <servlet-class>servlets.MyServlet</servlet-class>
  </servlet>

  <servlet-mapping>
    <servlet-name>my servlet</servlet-name>
    <url-pattern>/*</url-pattern>
  </servlet-mapping>

</web-app>
```

## Configuration and use

### Triggered execution

xsbt-web-plugin supports sbt's [triggered execution][3] by prefixing
commands with `~`.

[3]: http://www.scala-sbt.org/0.13/docs/Triggered-Execution.html

*sbt console:*

```
> ~jetty:start
```

This starts the Jetty container, then monitors the sources, resources,
and webapp directories for changes, which triggers a container restart.

### Container arguments

To pass extra arguments to the Jetty or Tomcat container, set
`containerArgs`:

```scala
containerArgs := Seq("--path", "/myservice")
```

* For available Jetty arguments, see the [Jetty Runner docs][4]
* For available Tomcat arguments, see [webapp-runner#options][5]

[4]: http://www.eclipse.org/jetty/documentation/current/runner.html#_full_configuration_reference
[5]: https://github.com/jsimone/webapp-runner#options

### Custom container

To use a custom J2EE container, e.g. a main class named `runner.Run`,
enable `ContainerPlugin` and set `containerLibs` and
`containerLaunchCmd`:

```scala
enablePlugins(ContainerPlugin)

containerLibs in Container := Seq(
    "org.eclipse.jetty" %  "jetty-webapp" % "9.1.0.v20131115"
  , "org.eclipse.jetty" %  "jetty-plus"   % "9.1.0.v20131115"
  , "test"              %% "runner"       % "0.1.0-SNAPSHOT"
)

containerLaunchCmd in Container := Seq("runner.Run", "8080", (target in webappPrepare).value.absolutePath)
```

*sbt:*

```
> container:start
> container:stop
```

*Example: [container/custom-runner][6]*

[6]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/container/custom-runner

### Forked JVM options

To set system properties for the forked container JVM, set
`containerForkOptions`:

```scala
containerForkOptions := new ForkOptions(runJVMOptions = Seq("-Dh2g2=42"))
```

*Example: [container/fork-options][7]*

[7]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/container/fork-options

Alternatively, set `javaOptions` in the `Jetty` (or `Tomcat`)
configuration:

```scala
javaOptions in Jetty += "-Dh2g2=42"
```

To attach an Eclipse debugger, set `-Xdebug` and `-Xrunjdwp`:

*build.sbt:*

```scala
javaOptions in Jetty ++= Seq(
  "-Xdebug",
  "-Xrunjdwp:transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=n,address=8000"
)
```

This is a handy way to change configuration for local development and
testing:

```scala
javaOptions in Jetty += "-DdbUrl=jdbc:sqlite:test.db"
```

In Eclipse, create and run a new *Remote Java Application* launch
configuration with a *Connection Type* of *Scala debugger (Socket
Attach)*, set to connect to *localhost* on port *8000*.

*Example: [container/java-options][8]*

[8]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/container/java-options

Similarly, to attach an IntelliJ IDEA debugger, add a Remote run configuration:
*Run* -> *Edit Configurations...*
Under *Defaults* select *Remote* and push the "+" button to add a new configuration.
By default the configuration will use port 5005.  (Use the same port in the -Xrunjdwp address.)
Name this configuration, and run it in debug mode.

### Debug mode

To enable debugging through [JDWP][jdwp], use `jetty:debug` or
`tomcat:debug`, and optionally set `debugOptions`, which defaults to:

```scala
Seq(
    "-Xdebug"
  , "-Xrunjdwp:transport=dt_socket,address=8888,server=y,suspend=n"
)
```

[jdwp]: https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/troubleshoot/introclientissues005.html

### Jetty version

By default, Jetty 9.3.13 is used.  To use a different version, set
`containerLibs`:

```scala
containerLibs in Jetty := Seq("org.mortbay.jetty" % "jetty-runner" % "7.0.0.v20091005" intransitive())
```

Depending on the version, it may also be necessary to specify the name
of Jetty's runner:

```scala
containerMain := "org.mortbay.jetty.runner.Runner"
```

*Examples:*

* *[container/jetty-7][9]*
* *[container/jetty-8][10]*
* *[container/jetty-9][11]*

[9]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/container/jetty-7
[10]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/container/jetty-8
[11]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/container/jetty-9

### Container port

By default, the container runs on port *8080*.  To use a different port,
set `containerPort`:

```scala
containerPort := 9090
```

*Examples:*

* *[container/jetty-port-9090][12]*
* *[container/tomcat-port-9090][13]*

[12]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/container/jetty-port-9090
[13]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/container/tomcat-port-9090

### *jetty.xml*

To use a *jetty.xml* configuration file, set `containerConfigFile`:

```scala
containerConfigFile := Some(file("etc/jetty.xml"))
```

This option can be used to enable SSL and HTTPS.

*Examples:*

* *[container/jetty-xml-http][14]*
* *[container/jetty-xml-https][15]*

[14]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/container/jetty-xml-http
[15]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/container/jetty-xml-https

### Multi-project applications

*Examples:*

* *[container/multi-module-single-webapp][16]*
* *[container/multi-module-multi-webapp][17]*

[16]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/container/multi-module-single-webapp
[17]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/container/multi-module-multi-webapp

### Tomcat version

By default, Tomcat 8.5 is used.  To use a different version, set
`containerLibs`:

```scala
containerLibs in Tomcat := Seq("com.github.jsimone" % "webapp-runner" % "7.0.34.1" intransitive())
```

Depending on the version, it may also be necessary to specify the name
of Tomcat's runner:

```scala
containerMain in Tomcat := "webapp.runner.launch.Main"
```

### Renaming the *.war* file

This can be useful for keeping the version number out of the *.war* file
name, using a non-conventional file name or path, adding additional
information to the file name, etc.

```scala
artifactName := { (v: ScalaVersion, m: ModuleID, a: Artifact) =>
  a.name + "." + a.extension
}
```
See ["Modifying default artifacts"][artifacts] in the sbt documentation
for additional information.

[artifacts]: http://www.scala-sbt.org/0.13/docs/Artifacts.html#Modifying+default+artifacts

### Massaging the *.war* file

After the *<project>/target/webapp* directory is prepared, it can be
modified with an arbitrary `File => Unit` function by setting
`webappPostProcess`.

To list the contents of the *webapp* directory after it is prepared:

```scala
webappPostProcess := {
  webappDir: File =>
    def listFiles(level: Int)(f: File): Unit = {
      val indent = ((1 until level) map { _ => "  " }).mkString
      if (f.isDirectory) {
        streams.value.log.info(indent + f.getName + "/")
        f.listFiles foreach { listFiles(level + 1) }
      } else streams.value.log.info(indent + f.getName)
    }
    listFiles(1)(webappDir)
}
```

To include webapp resources from multiple directories in the prepared
*webapp* directory:

```scala
webappPostProcess := {
  webappDir: File =>
    val baseDir = baseDirectory.value / "src" / "main"
    IO.copyDirectory(baseDir / "webapp1", webappDir)
    IO.copyDirectory(baseDir / "webapp2", webappDir)
    IO.copyDirectory(baseDir / "webapp3", webappDir)
}
```

*Examples:*

* *[war/simple][18]*
* *[webapp/yuicompressor][19]*

[18]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/war/simple
[19]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/webapp/yuicompressor

### Custom resources directory

Files in the extra resource directory are not compiled, and are bundled
directly in the project artifact *.jar* file.

To add a custom resources directory, set `unmanagedResourceDirectories`:

```scala
unmanagedResourceDirectories in Compile <+= (sourceDirectory in Compile)(_ / "extra")
```

*Example: [webapp/unmanaged-resources][20]*

[20]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/webapp/unmanaged-resources

### Custom sources directory

Scala files in the extra source directory are compiled, and bundled in
the project artifact *.jar* file.

To add a custom sources directory, set `unmanagedSourceDirectories`:

```scala
unmanagedSourceDirectories in Compile <+= (sourceDirectory in Compile)(_ / "extra")
```

*Example: [webapp/unmanaged-sources][21]*

[21]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/webapp/unmanaged-sources

### Utilizing *WEB-INF/classes*

By default, project classes are packaged into a *.jar* file, shipped in
the *WEB-INF/lib* directory of the *.war* file.  To instead keep them
extracted in *WEB-INF/classes*, set `webappWebInfClasses`:

```scala
webappWebInfClasses := true
```

*Examples:*

* *[webapp/web-inf-classes][22]*
* *[webapp/web-inf-lib][23]*

[22]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/webapp/web-inf-classes
[23]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/webapp/web-inf-lib

### Web application destination

The Web application destination directory is where the static Web
content, compiled Scala classes, library *.jar* files, etc. are placed.
By default, they go to *<project>/target/webapp*.

To specify a different directory, set `target` in the `webappPrepare`
configuration:

```scala
target in webappPrepare := target.value / "WebContent"
```

*Example: [webapp/webapp-dest][24]*

[24]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/webapp/webapp-dest

### Web application resources

The Web application resources directory is where static Web content
(including *.html*, *.css*, and *.js* files, the *web.xml* container
configuration file, etc.  By default, this is kept in
*<project>/src/main/webapp*.

To specify a different directory, set `sourceDirectory` in the
`webappPrepare` configuration:

```scala
sourceDirectory in webappPrepare := (sourceDirectory in Compile).value / "WebContent"
```

*Example: [webapp/webapp-src][25]*

[25]: https://github.com/earldouglas/xsbt-web-plugin/tree/master/src/sbt-test/webapp/webapp-src

### Prepare the Web application for execution and deployment

For situations when the prepared *<project>/target/webapp* directory is
needed, but the packaged *.war* file isn't.

*sbt console:*

```
webapp:prepare
```

### Add manifest attributes

Manifest attributes of the *.war* file can be configured via
`packageOptions in sbt.Keys.package` in *build.sbt*:

```scala
packageOptions in sbt.Keys.`package` +=
  Package.ManifestAttributes( java.util.jar.Attributes.Name.SEALED -> "true" )
```

### Inherit manifest attributes

To configure the *.war* file to inherit the manifest attributes of the
*.jar* file, typically set via `packageOptions in (Compile,
packageBin)`, set `inheritJarManifest` to `true`:

```scala
inheritJarManifest := true
```

### Using JRebel

Add the JRebel sbt plugin (which generates *jrebel.xml*) to
*project/plugins.sbt*:

```scala
addSbtPlugin("fi.gekkio.sbtplugins" % "sbt-jrebel-plugin" % "0.10.0")
```

Add the following lines to *build.sbt*, making sure to specify the
correct path to JRebel:

```scala
jrebelSettings

jrebel.webLinks += (sourceDirectory in Compile).value / "webapp"

jrebel.enabled := true

javaOptions in Jetty ++= Seq(
    "-javaagent:/path/to/jrebel/jrebel.jar",
    "-noverify",
    "-XX:+UseConcMarkSweepGC",
    "-XX:+CMSClassUnloadingEnabled"
)
```

Start the container, and trigger `~compile`, and your changes should be
picked up automatically:

```scala
> jetty:start
> ~compile
```

### Container shutdown and sbt

By default, sbt will shutdown the running container when exiting sbt.

To allow the container to continue running after sbt exits, set
`containerShutdownOnExit`:

```scala
containerShutdownOnExit := false
```

## Deploying to Heroku

See [sbt-heroku-deploy][26].

[26]: https://github.com/earldouglas/sbt-heroku-deploy

## Block sbt on running container

To start the container from the command line and block sbt from exiting
prematurely, use `jetty:join`:

```
$ sbt jetty:start jetty:join
```

This is useful for running sbt in production (e.g. in a Docker
container).

### Development mode

The development cycle can be sped up by serving static resources
directly from source, and avoiding re-packaging on every file change.

To enable this, configure the webapp resources target directory to be
the webapp resources source directory:

```scala
target in webappPrepare := (sourceDirectory in Compile).value / "webapp"
```

And exclude them from triggered executions:

```scala
watchSources := watchSources.value.filterNot { x =>
   x.isDirectory || x.getAbsolutePath.contains("webapp")
}
```

Note that this necessarily circumvents any behavior set in
`webappPostProcess`.
